# Human Capabilities
## Senses
- Sense changes/information
- Includes: 
	- Sight (important): 
		- POV of 200 deg, HD POV of 15 deg
		- 120M Rods to perceive B/W. 1000x more sensitive than cones
		- 6-7M Cones: 64% R, 32% G, 2% B
		- 7-8% of males and 0.4% of females cannot distinguish red from green
		- Peripheral vision of 180 deg: Movement oriented
		- Stereopsis:
			- Monocular (color, brightness, shape)
			- Binocular (size, interposition, perspective, parallax)
	- Hearing (important):
		- 20 - 20K Hz. 30 - 100dB. 5° source & stream separation.
		- Timbre – type of sound (music instruments).
	- Touch (important):
		- Pressure, Intense pressure, Temperature
		- Sensitivity, Dexterity, Flexibility, Speed
	- Smell, tastes, kinesthetic
- Senses constrain design space
## Cognition
- Process and interpret input
### Attention
- Selected
- Focused
- Divided
### Memory
- Short-term: Small ~7 items (chunks). Short-lived: ~10 seconds.
- Repeating helps retain chunks. Distraction does the opposite.
- Long-term: Unlimited. Elaborative rehearsal transfers chunks from short to long (learning).
- Chunk depends on how the info is presented and what is known from experience.
- Recognition vs Recall: Design for recognition.
## Motor System
- React to input and cognition
- Range of movement, speed, strength, dexterity, accuracy.
- **Feedback is important**
- **Minimize eye movement**
- Reachability
# Usability
- How well users can use it:
	- Learnability: How easy to learn and use?
	- Efficiency: How quickly can tasks be performed?
	- Memorability: How easy to reestablish proficiency?
	- Errors: Often? Easy to recover?
	- Satisfaction: Are users satisfied?
- Measures:
	- Retention over time
	- Subjective satisfaction
	- Rate of errors by users
	- Speed of performance
	- Time to learn
- UX vs. Usability:
	- Evaluation of understandability vs. holistic design 
	- Designing it right vs. the right design 
	- Often, poor usability leads to a bad user experience, but not necessarily
- Good usability:
	- Visibility
	- Accessibility
	- Consistency
	- Affordances: Perceived and actual properties give clues to its operation
# Problem Space vs Solution/Design Space
- Problem space: Problems:
	- Defined by: What? Who? Where? When? Why?
- Solution/Design space: Potential solutions/designs being considered:
	- Defined by: What? How?
# Mental models
- Internal constructions of some aspect of the external world enabling predictions to be made
- Involves unconscious and conscious processes: images and analogies are activated
- Deep versus shallow models: how to drive a car and how it works.
- Users develop an understanding of a system through learning and using it -> mental model:
	- How to use (what to do next)?
	- What to do with unfamiliar systems or unexpected situations (how the system works)
- People make inferences using mental models of how to carry out tasks
- **Designs should not confuse/conflict users’ mental model**
# Metaphors
- visuals, actions and procedures that exploit knowledge that users have of other domains (physical objects).
- Objective: Give instantaneous knowledge about how to interact
# Conceptual model
- The mental model of how something should be done:
	- Core activities
	- Objects
	- Interface metaphors
- FORMULATING A CONCEPTUAL MODEL: 
	- What will the users be doing when carrying out their tasks? 
	- How will the system support these? 
	- What kind of interface metaphor? 
	- What kinds of interaction modes and styles to use