# Team Makeup
- Plan to make the process work
- Accommodate every one in the team for the first meeting
- Large teams (> 12 people) should break-up into teams of 4-6 for subsequent meetings
- Rotate people among teams
- Have sharing sessions if there are other sub-teams:
	- Present the work models, update if new findings come
	- Add any new notes
# Interpretation Session
- Let every member experience all interviews => Enable sharing and mutual discovery.
- Interpret interviews within 48 hours:
	- Same day => only notes
	- Next day => annotate notes from tapes
	- More than 48 hours => transcribe notes from tapes
- Capture demographics in a separate file. Keep 'em private. 
- Be non-judgmental.
## Steps
- Interviewer/s walk/s through a single interview
- Others listen, ask questions, draw work models, record issues, interpretations and design ideas
- Roles:
	- Interviewer: 
		- Describes things as they happened, do a retrospective account. 
		- Is interrupted all the time.
		- Have notes.
		- Draw physical model.
	- Two Work Modellers:
		- (Flow and culture) and sequence.
		- Put up and annotate artifacts.
		- Write while listening. Don't ask.
		- Group watches for correctness.
		- Do not filter.
		- If formal process exists, but is different, color it green.
	- Recorder:
		- Notes typed and projected.
		- Clear and succinct insight or issue.
	- Moderator:
		- Keeps everyone busy, on topic and the pace brisk.
		- Reorients the interviewer if he gets lost
	- Participants:
		- Listen, ask questions, understand and develop insights
		- Capture design ideas in notes
		- Watch notes and models to ensure that they are right
## Work Models
### Flow models
- How work is broken up across people and how people coordinate (their relationships).
	- Interviewee (oval in middle).
	- Other groups/people also ovals.
	- Physical/virtual places as rectangles.
	- Artifacts as they pass between people as shaded rectangles.
	- Breakdowns (lightning bolts).
#### Building Flow Model
- List responsibilities within the subject.
- Coordination: Where do artifacts come from and where do they go next.
- Strategy: Why are things done a certain way?
- Roles: What makes a role? Knowledge, tools, procedures, or data?
- Informal Structures: What are out-of-band channels? 
- ***LOOK BEYOND formal processes***
### Sequence models
- Work is divided up into steps and its intention to achieve a goal.
	- Intent behind or during sequence
	- Trigger, which initiates sequence
	- Steps at high details (actions, but not movements)
	- Loops and branches showing order and iteration
	- Breakdowns
	- Notice hesitations, errors, and intents
#### Building Sequence Model
- Identify each main task as an intent derived from responsibilities in flow diagram.
- Identify triggers: regular occurrence, opportunistic, on-demand.
- Add steps, showing links, loops, and branches.
- Review steps and fill in subsidiary intents that controls overall process.
- Add in breakdowns
### Artifact models
- How and why people use and modify things => characteristics and break downs
### Cultural models
- Expectations, constraints, desires, policies influence work.
	- Influencers, represented as bubbles: Can be individuals or groups (e.g. competitors).
	- Extent of influence, represented by overlap in bubbles
	- Influences, represented as arrows between bubbles, incorporates pushback influences.
	- Breakdowns.
#### Building Cultural Models
- Start with bubble for interviewee
- Add bubbles for each group or individual
- Arrange to reflect extent of influence
- Describe overall culture, if exists
- Identify breakdowns on model
- Pay attention to what people think, not what they say
- Culture is often implicit
### Physical models
- People adapt their environment so they can accomplish work
## Notes
- Key observations
- User statements
- Breakdowns
- Insights (cultural insights)
- Design ideas
- Questions and ambiguities
- One note should consist of a single fact.
- If there are gaps in knowledge, interview members in your group to generate more knowledge.
## Goal
- Building a Shared Understanding
- Better data
- Written record 
- Effective extraction of meaning from data
- Multiple perspectives on the problem: Do not filter!
- Development of a shared perspective
- True involvement in the data => Good attention.
- Save time.
- Capture top insights at the end and keep building the top insights list => First deliverables.
# Affinity Diagram
- Interview more people if there are questions and ambiguities.
- Grouping the Notes into a single label.
- Generate design Ideas.
## Consolidation
- Design for a population, but meet the needs of the individual
- Invent systems that support the work coherently: Incomplete support creates an opportunity for competitive products.
- Find design Issues:
	- Manage differences, contradictions: Don’t let individual differences blind you of common patterns of work
	- Avoid point solutions – see the big picture: Plan products to address coherent work practice.
	- Expand the scope of a product: Grow product offerings to support related work.
### How to Consolidate?
- Seeing pattern => Reveal the users’ story
- Variation exists within a structure – it isn’t random
- Many conclusions are possible
- Arguments are never binding but may be cogent
## Affinity Diagrams
- Create a bottom-up hierarchy of notes
- Summarise, prioritise, find trends, patterns: Push knowledge up the hierarchy
- Explain differences, contradictions 
- Generate new knowledge.
- Help make design decisions: What matters? How to respond? Involve people with the data
### Building AD
- Familiarise with data by inviting new members (client, marketing, domain experts, friends).
- Start with your favourite finding
- Then, everyone looks for what else goes with it – No justification needed, but look for affinity
- When you find 3-5 notes, give a label.
- If there are too many in a group, break up groups
- Add higher level groups to collect groups
- Look for the next favourite note
- Remember: Bottom up.
- Ask how this could be relevant to design.
- When notes can be grouped in different ways, choose the grouping that gives more new ideas.
### Building affinity
- Name should summarize rather than give a heading.
- Use direct, immediate language – As if the user was talking to the designer
- Labels become the meaning that we design from
- Try to push the knowledge up in the hierarchy
- Group to higher orders of hierarchy
- Generate new knowledge: challenge entering assumptions
- Build affinity at the end all at once
### Affinity Shows
- Problems, opportunities, goals, constraints, issues, worries, key elements 
- Key quality requirements
- Hierarchy groups similar issues: Creates stories about the user
### Affinity Statistics
- Data from 10-20 interviews:
	- 50-100 notes per user
	- Typically 1000 notes per session
	- Need about 10 in 1 day or 4 people in 3 days
- Data from 10-15 interviews:
	- 30-60 notes per user
	- Typically 500-700 notes per group
	- Need about 10 people to build in two hours